# Blockchain Explanation

A blockchain is a decentralized distributed ledger which stores data or transactions in a cryptographically secure manner. In simple words, it can be thought of as a digital ledger or a digital khata-book that stores transactions and this digital ledger is distributed across many computers or nodes in a network. A block in a blockcahin can be thought of as a data structure that mainly stores transactions and other metadata. There are multiple blocks of transactions. These blocks are cryptographically linked together to form a chain of blocks, otherwise known as a blockchain. Some important features of blockchain are: 

1) **Immutable**: A blockchain is tamper-resistant. Once the data is added onto a blockchain, it cannot be modified or the state cannot be altered.
2) **Transparent**: The transactions happening on a blockchain can be tracked in real time using a block explorer.
3) **Decentralized**: A blockchain is operated by participating nodes on a P2P network and no single authority can control the state of the blockchain by themselves.

## Real-Life Use Cases

a) **Digital Voting**: Electoral processes like government elections, NGO voting, DAO governances, student elections can be conducted using blockchain mechanism. Efficient and highly secure smart contracts help facilitate the voting process effectively.

b) **Real Estate**: Blockchain simplifies property buying by recording ownership, contracts, and payments in a secure ledger. Additionally, with the help of ERC-721 proposal, asset ownership can be tokenized using NFTs.
